README.md, before:

# Highz-EXP
This is a preliminary version for plotting and analyzing data collected from the HighZ-EXP experiment. It includes modules for loading files, processing reflection data, plotting spectra, and converting units.

## Related Repositories

The HighZ-EXP project has been split into focused component repositories:

- **[adf4351-controller](https://github.com/alhosani-abdulla/adf4351-controller)** - Arduino controller programs for the ADF4351 PLL frequency synthesizer used as the Local Oscillator
- **[highz-filterbank](https://github.com/alhosani-abdulla/highz-filterbank)** - Multi-channel filterbank spectrometer for detecting the 21-cm cosmological signal from Cosmic Dawn

## Installation

### From GitHub (for Google Colab or local installation)

```python
!pip install git+https://github.com/alhosani-abdulla/Highz-EXP.git
```
Noe that `-e` flat does not work in Google Colab, as it's designed for local dev where changes to the source code is immediately reflected in the installed package without reinstallation. Google Colab does not provide persistent access to the source code.

### For development (editable install)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/alhosani-abdulla/Highz-EXP.git
cd Highz-EXP
pip install -e .
```

## Usage

```python
# Import the package (note: use underscore, not hyphen)
import highz_exp
from highz_exp import file_load, unit_convert
```

If run into import issues, try 
```bash
pip install --force-reinstall git+https://github.com/alhosani-abdulla/Highz-EXP.git
```

### Key Classes:
- `Spectrum`: Class for handling and plotting spectral data.
```python
from highz_exp.spec_class import Spectrum
spectrum = Spectrum(frequency_axis, spectral_data, name='example_spectrum', metadata={'obs_time': '2024-01-01T00:00:00Z'})
```

Commit message:

Enhance CSV loading and spectrum processing
- Updated `load_csv.py` to improve parsing of CSV files from Spectrum Analyzer SAX3000, including better handling of trace names and metadata.
- Added support for numpy arrays in trace data storage.
- Improved `plot_spectrum` function in `plotter.py` to enhance plot visibility with increased line width.
- Introduced new methods in `Spectrum` class in `spec_class.py` for unit conversion and improved smoothing functionality, allowing for in-place modifications.
- Added a new README file in the notebooks directory for documentation purposes.

README.md, after:

# Highz-EXP
This is a preliminary version for plotting and analyzing data collected from the HighZ-EXP experiment. It includes modules for loading files, processing reflection data, plotting spectra, and converting units.

## Related Repositories

The HighZ-EXP project has been split into focused component repositories:

- **[adf4351-controller](https://github.com/alhosani-abdulla/adf4351-controller)** - Arduino controller programs for the ADF4351 PLL frequency synthesizer used as the Local Oscillator
- **[highz-filterbank](https://github.com/alhosani-abdulla/highz-filterbank)** - Multi-channel filterbank spectrometer for detecting the 21-cm cosmological signal from Cosmic Dawn

## Installation

### From GitHub (for Google Colab or local installation)

```python
!pip install git+https://github.com/alhosani-abdulla/Highz-EXP.git
```
Noe that `-e` flat does not work in Google Colab, as it's designed for local dev where changes to the source code is immediately reflected in the installed package without reinstallation. Google Colab does not provide persistent access to the source code.

### For development (editable install)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/alhosani-abdulla/Highz-EXP.git
cd Highz-EXP
pip install -e .
```

## Usage

```python
# Import the package (note: use underscore, not hyphen)
import highz_exp
from highz_exp import file_load, unit_convert
```

If run into import issues, try 
```bash
pip install --force-reinstall git+https://github.com/alhosani-abdulla/Highz-EXP.git
```

Examples of how to use the various modules and common RF concepts are provided in the [notebooks](notebooks/) directory. 
[Y-factor calculations](notebooks/Y_factor.ipynb) and [spectrum plotting](notebooks/spectrum_plotting_example.ipynb) are included as starting points.

Scripts used in our data collection/visualization are available in the [scripts](scripts/) directory.

### Key Classes:
- `Spectrum`: Class for handling and plotting spectral data.
```python
from highz_exp.spec_class import Spectrum
spectrum = Spectrum(frequency_axis, spectral_data, name='example_spectrum', metadata={'obs_time': '2024-01-01T00:00:00Z'})
```
